hi everyone welcome to the ipfs core
implementations
weekly thing for monday the 11th of
january 2021
uh welcome back after the break this is
my first day back
i am looking forward to doing some
awesome stuff this year as i'm sure
everyone is
we're going to go through our regular
agenda
which is high priority initiatives other
initiatives and then
uh the parking lot questions any other
business that kind of stuff
so kicking us off is upcoming and
shipped releases
who can talk about that
something i missed last week that
happened over the break um
go live pdp 0.13 released
um december 22nd or something like that
um that does include some breaking
changes um
technically but they shouldn't affect
people unless you are opening streams
directly on the connection
so just to note there but yeah i think
we're
rolling that up or there's a pr open to
include that
in in jsipfs
i mean go up your vest but yes that pr
that one yeah yes
yes along with some quick fixes which
are related to that
yes status of 0.8 release is is similar
to
similar to last week in progress
uh there should hopefully be a js ipfs
release later this week uh that has the
ipvs client
the experimental grpc server and some
fixes for some issues that we're
debugging at the moment around a
memory leak in the http server
potentially
and some problems with concurrent
connections from the http client
that is it for upcoming and ship
releases
and we can move on to uh the next item
which is pinning services
on the go side i think this is just um
landing the mfs pinning which should be
happening this week
[Music]
yeah and on the
gui side i believe web ui will
uh wire up everything up to the
mfs and then we'll have that
commented out and then
wire it up when it lands uh i think the
configuration keys are stabilized so we
could assume they are correct right
okay so yeah i think we're pretty happy
with them oh
yeah we'll have to make some comments in
in
the release notes about the changes for
anyone who was using an rc
but yeah should be fine yeah so uh
yeah if it lands in rc that then we'll
write it up if not we can
comment it out for now and do that later
http client is pull request is up for
review
it depends on rc1 now once rc2 is
released i'll update it to
point to rc2
so we will not merging before
before the go release so
because it can't hurt can it
i i don't think it will like the api
should not change
the surface is pretty small of the api
okay we probably want it before web ui
really so right
yeah i mean yeah ideally they're right
if we want the web ui
in the final go ip fast audit release
then we need the http client in
beforehand
so it can it can make its way there
if anything changes like if you know it
turns out like we made a mistake that's
it's fine because you're just going to
get like an error right of like ah this
thing isn't supported yet
because you're using an older version of
go ipfs and then we'll update it and
then things will work
okay uh next up is local pinning
uh yeah i think things are things are
pretty
solid there and the only thing
currently is we want to do some testing
on uh evaluating like how long it takes
to do a migration with lots of
if you already have lots of pins in your
data store um
it shouldn't be that big a deal um but
we'd like to be able to set expectations
with the audit release as to how long
this is going to take if in fact you
have
a lot of pins that information will be
available
i should have that finished today just
going through
and producing it something that you can
graph and look at and see what the
expected behavior is that way if we have
anything that's way outside of what that
what that curve looks like we can see
there's something maybe on their
site that's wrong
is there a particular place that we
should publish that information for
users consumption at this point or do we
want to just keep that internally for
this point
i mean i think once we have stuff and
and if it looks
if it looks like what we're seeing uh
internally then then we're good and
we'll just
like make that we'll just add it to the
0.8 release notes github issue
all right um but yeah we'll just make
sure everything
checks out internally first
cool next up is the data transfer speed
improvement
uh hannah and alex are still out so
um nothing there although
yeah i have something related to data
transfer
but we will do that at the end
neato uh js improves discoverability and
connectivity
yeah so in the in the renewable side of
things the two biggest updates from last
week
are that the client codes is now ready
to review in the lipid peak core pr
i also created a benchmarking setup
i'm just finishing uh some things about
it and
creating some docs so that tomorrow i
can start
benchmarking the server itself and so
yeah for this week i want to finish the
benchmarking
and start working on the examples in
production guides
and it would be great if i could get a
review for the server
this week and that's it
next up is bi-directional streaming and
streaming areas in the browser um so
this got merged just before christmas
and it will go out in the next slide fs
release
along with a blog post explaining the
new shiny
and the fun things people can do with it
um next is javascript dht's no update
there
um which is it
the end of the high priority initiatives
so the next section is other initiatives
uh first thing is typescript integration
so we changed some stuff in the
typescript config in asia
so i'm updating some of the pr's that
were
already done
and also there's an apr for the ipfs
hotels
and there's a fix for the cid type setup
which
was basically breaking the lithium types
so hopefully that all gets merged
soon so we can get on with features
instead of types
and yeah that's it
next item is badger 2 support which i
think is about to just get renamed
yes they're it badger 2
well the latest release will then be
badger 3
and the badger team has said they don't
really have much interest in
doing anything other than maintaining
like anything anything that is
non-critical fixes
to a version of badger that is not
supported by d graph so
uh seems like there's no particularly
good reason
why ipfs if it's not using badger to now
should continue should use it at all and
should just switch to badge and just go
straight to badger 3.
um we'll probably need to support both
for a little while
in terms of like letting people test out
the
stability of badger 3 and see if they're
happy with that uh
and we also need to set up a system for
uh having multiple versions of data
stores that are the badger data store
uh having a single repository for each
version for each major version
seems like a bad idea which is what we
currently do
[Music]
if you are interested in that i guess
follow the
uh go ds badger repo where some
discussions will be happening
are those discussions purely in the
issues or is there a channel that would
that we also want to discuss on
uh yeah i my current plan i was just
gonna like
get some some brief like survey some
brief thoughts from people and then put
up an issue and then and then
do it there on on the github issue
um if it if it starts like it seems like
it's getting more complicated then we'll
schedule a meeting to talk about it
all right
that traversal is the next item on the
list
uh irish is back he is working on things
um he's uh yeah
he's talking with stephen i think today
about
um some of the multi-stream issues and
um we're gonna try and do some
strategizing on
what is like the simplest way to get at
least some of the natural reversal stuff
done so that we have
something soon
cool uh next up unit suppressively 1.5
and guide pfs
look like there's been any update on
that ticket the issue hasn't really had
any comments on it since the beginning
of december
so
it's gone cold um guy for sgc
improvements
is the next thing all right i'm
still working toward uh seeing what we
need to do for performance improvements
as far as dag awareness it looks like it
will actually
work without being gag aware so that's a
that's good news
and this need to assess uh are there any
major performance impacts depending on
how we delete
blocks within that dag because that uh
if it doesn't
it still might make sense we need to be
aware just because of performance but it
doesn't appear to actually break
anything catastrophically which is the
good news
so that's that's the only update right
now but that that work is continuing
final item on the list is the ipfs
migrations rework
yes last uh last week i finished all of
the
modifications to the distributions uh
site scripting and all that so
uh it should all be reviewable this week
there's a
chunk of stuff to review and it's not as
high priorities other things so it may
not
we may not get to it right away but uh
we'll have everything ready to go
certainly for the next
uh next release and if we
need to backport it we could uh for this
release but
um at least that's what you know this
will be
the worst cases this will be the last
release where we have to go forward with
the gigantic
migration so
we're good there
just uh just a matter of review
great stuff uh that is it for the other
initiatives
so the next section is design review
proposals
which is empty yeah
yeah i've got something uh so
as i have mentioned previously
um put a little bit of thought into
uh into this issue around um
bitswap has a maximum block size uh
the maximum block size uh is
frustrating if you have some already
content address data
and the blocks are bigger than one
megabyte right you're
importing git blocks and some of the git
blocks are bigger than one megabyte
so now what do you do can't use bitswap
so what's the plan
um so the
that proposal um is
one way to go about solving that um
there's a second proposal which is
related to it which says hey
well if you can already do if you can
handle transferring
very large blocks what if you just
decided that
all files were just single very large
blocks
which would give you the ability to have
like a canonical hash so it doesn't
matter
how anyone chunks it you get the same
hash
uh and also it allows people like just
grab
like hey i found the shot 256 system isl
on github and then be like hey is it an
ipfs
and maybe find it um
these reviews need some thoughts it's
like a pretty different way of thinking
about things and so
it may be that this is a bad idea um
if it is a bad idea then please say your
comments so that we don't do something
bad
if you or your friends have some
cryptanalysis expertise then want to
verify that my
strategy for dealing with sha-1 and
sha-2 is smart
then uh would also be appreciated
also learned some interesting things
about how uh
blake 3 and kangaroo 12 could be like
super useful to us
um in the future because they are tree
based hashes
and we do trees with hashes so
could be like super useful
check out the pr
next up is blockers and asks um looks
like
lidar's got something yeah uh just a
quick shout out
um if you have some spare time install
brave beta or nightly
as long it's it's 1.19 it will have
some like built-in support for our uris
ipns
and ipfs console slash so
uh just play with it i'm not
saying anything specific because it's
useful to have feedback from people who
don't have any expectations just
if anything look weird or does not
behave
how you would expect it send feedback my
way either
dm me or feel an issue on in ipfs in web
browsers
repo and i'll try to consolidate that
feedback
uh we'll try to i don't expect big
changes for the initial release when
this
initial support lands in brave stable
but we will be iterating on that
so for now we want to push this basic
support
for resolving those uris so that's the
goal
so people can resolve those uris either
by
public gateways or
local gateway local ipfs node managed by
brave
but any feedback is welcome so
just let me know
and i just wanted to note that there's
an ipfs community security meetup
on wednesday this came out of
the set of github issues around themes
for 2021 one of which being
privacy and security and a bunch of
community
groups building on ipfs expressed
interest
in various forms of what that might mean
so we're going to have them all show up
and do five minute things on
either what they've done in regards to
their understanding of privacy
and security on ipfs or what
requirements
they want and then have hopefully a i
don't know
i mean for like half an hour discussion
of you know
what ends up coming out as themes the
most important privacy and security work
from there
um to keep external groups involved
having
people who are here also on the same
page as that maybe by
watching it either live or afterwards or
participating would be great
uh i have asked for alex uh alex if
you'll have a chance to look at the
pub sub issue i'll put a note
and share your opinion would be helpful
i
propose specific uh changes to the pop
sub api we have in
js ipfs and it would be good to know
if you're like them or not
okay i will look at that and respond
thanks if that is it for the blockers
and asks
uh we move on to questions who's got a
question
okay parking lot anything that does not
fit elsewhere
um i guess this is not super important
i've been working on
cleaning up the ipfs counter
slash dht measurement side code
yet again so going from i i merged the
counter and
adin's dht graph thing if there's anyone
who wants to
be tagged on pr's beyond a dean
on that let me know
i guess a fun just bug i ran into
with the with the crawler that i have a
apr
i have to put up a pr to fix is uh
multi-hat multi adders are fun
uh and by fun i mean somewhat confusing
because sometimes they end in slash p2p
slash some peer id and sometimes they
don't
and gilda p2p expects
them to not end in that because the pid
will come
separately as part of a adder info
object
if you aren't careful about this you'll
end up with peers that are undialable
or that seem undoubtable even though you
have their addresses because those
addresses don't seem valid
so that uh yeah
you got to be careful if you're working
with them do we think that's a buzz and
go
that like the address is too specific
and in fact is
like is so terrifying
i suspect that there is some
there's certainly a bug uh is the bug
the fact that
the older version of ipfs was putting
them it was putting the
you know the slash p2ps at the end and
the dht somewhere
and other ones were not and we're all
playing in the same space and that's
causing problems
sure uh and so we could have like a more
uniform dht and that would fix things
also we should probably be more lenient
and or more careful
when when working with multi-address
just like if you're doing it on your own
just as a thing to
do heads up for and maybe we'll put some
fixes to make
more things more lenient
if there's nothing else then i think
we're done
thank you for coming everyone this has
been the ipfs core implementations
weekly sync from monday the 11th of
january 2021
uh please fill in your async updates so
people know what's going on
because it's really useful uh i will see
you all next week have a have a fab week
everyone
bye